A Task-Driven High-Throughput Workflow


PREFACE

This project is created as a example of object-oriented 
programming (OOP) in C++, for which the specific problem 
serves as a playground.  The primary motive of the design 
choices was to showcase programming concepts and may not
be optimal for a real-world implementation.

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION

Consider a computational problem that cam be broken into
smaller tasks in such a way that:
  (a) They can be arranged in a tree; 
  (b) Processing starts at the root;
  (c) "Children" are processed after "parents".
  
Additionally we impose the following constraints:
  (d) In the beginning only the root task exists;
  (e) Each task creats its own children tasks;
  (f) Only a limited number of tasks can exist at atime;
  (g) "Workers" process "work items" in parallel.
  
Finally, the following definitions determine the concrete example.
They are arbitrary and can be changed to model other problems.
The intent is to keep the example simple but not trivial.
  (h) Tasks of same generation have the same number of children;
  (i) Tasks of same generation live in the same "pool", each task occupying a "slot";
  (g) There is a pool of a fixed capacity for each generation;
  (k) The root task gives two children different alphabets;
  (l) The root task has the empty word;
  (m) A child inherits its parent's alphabet and word;
  (n) A child appends a letter from the alphabet to its word;
  (o) Children of the last generation "save" their word;
  (p) At most one child is created per work item;
  (q) Later generation pools are much smaller than the total number of tasks in that generation;
  (r) The number of workers is much smaller than the total pools capacity.  


FEATURES

This code features the following:

Inheritance;
Polymorphism;
Abstract methods;
Interfaces;
Adapter pattern;
Factory construction pattern;
Prototype construction pattern;
Singleton pattern;
Facade pattern;
Composition pattern;
Aggregation pattern;
Call-once guard
Protected field access (getter/setter);
Multi-threading;
Shared resource acquisition (mutex);
Local scope exclusive lock;
Exclusive multiple locks acquisition; 
Member access specifiers (public/protected/private);
Friend;
Const members/variables/methods/parameters
Const pointer/pointer to const
Const method
Static local variables
Static class members


CLASSES OVERVIEW

Itask <- Task <- InitialTask hierarchy is central for the algorithm
as it encapsulates all the essential computation, incl chldren creation.

PoolArray, which is composed of Pools, provides mechanism for 
pools/slots access and locking.

Worker is responsible for the parllelism. Runs a simple loop
requesting work and processinig it.  The processing includes
evolving and deleting tasks.  A new child would be passed to 
the dispatcher to be stored reserved in slot. 

DispatcherBase interacts with the PoolArray on behalf of the workers
hiding the comlexity of reserving and releasing work items.
The specific algorithms searching for work items are left for 
concrete implementations of the class.

WorkRequest is used by the interface between dispatcher and worker.
WorkReqInternal is used internally by the dispatcher. 

ProtectedCounter is an auxilary class allowing 
thread-safe increments and reads.

zyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcba